README.md, before:

# Custom Network Proxy Server

A multi-threaded **HTTP and HTTPS proxy server** implemented in Python.  
This proxy supports **concurrent clients**, **authentication**, **domain filtering**,
**HTTPS tunneling (CONNECT method)**, **streaming-based forwarding**, and **optional caching**.

The project is designed for academic evaluation and demonstrates practical networking
and system design concepts used in real-world proxy servers.

---

##  Features

- HTTP request forwarding
- HTTPS tunneling using CONNECT method
- Concurrent client handling using a thread pool
- Streaming response relay (no full buffering)
- Basic proxy authentication
- Domain blocking and filtering
- Optional caching for GET requests
- Thread-safe logging
- Graceful handling of malformed requests

---

##  Technology Stack

- **Language:** Python 3  
- **Networking:** TCP sockets  
- **Concurrency:** Thread pool + queue  
- **Protocols:** HTTP/1.1, HTTPS (CONNECT)  
- **Testing:** PowerShell scripts + curl  

---

##  Project Structure

CUSTOM-NETWORK-PROXY-SERVER/
│
├── config/
│ └── proxy_config.json
│
├── docs/
│ ├── architecture_and_working.md
│ ├── concurrency_model.md
│ ├── data_flow_description.md
│ ├── error_handling.md
│ └── limitations_and_future_work.md
│
├── Project Statement/
│
├── src/
│ ├── proxy_server.py
│ ├── connection_handler.py
│ ├── http_parser.py
│ ├── https_tunnel.py
│ ├── auth.py
│ ├── filter_engine.py
│ ├── cache_manager.py
│ └── logger.py
│
├── tests/
│ ├── streaming_tests/
│ │ ├── direct_stream.ps1
│ │ └── proxy_stream.ps1
│ │
│ ├── test_auth.ps1
│ ├── test_blocking.ps1
│ ├── test_cache.ps1
│ ├── test_concurrency.ps1
│ ├── test_forwarding.ps1
│ ├── test_https.ps1
│ ├── test_malformed.ps1
│ └── sample_logs.txt
│
├── Makefile
├── setup.py
├── requirements.txt
├── README.md
├── direct.zip
├── proxy.zip
├── large_test.bin
└── received.bin

---

##  Configuration

Edit the proxy configuration file:

config/proxy_config.json

Example:

```json
{
  "listen_port": 8888,
  "thread_pool_size": 10,
  "log_file": "proxy.log"
}

# Running the Proxy Server
1 Install Python (if not installed)

Python version 3.8 or above is recommended.

2 Start the proxy server:
python src/proxy_server.py

You should see a message similar to:
INFO - Proxy server running on port 8888

Testing the Proxy

  On Windows PowerShell, always use curl.exe instead of curl.
🔹 HTTP Forwarding Test
    curl.exe -x localhost:8888 --proxy-user admin:password123 http://httpbin.org/get
🔹 HTTPS CONNECT Test
    curl.exe -x localhost:8888 --proxy-user admin:password123 https://httpbin.org/get
Expected output includes:
HTTP/1.1 200 Connection Established

🔹 Streaming Test (Large File)
     Direct streaming test:
     powershell -File tests/streaming_tests/direct_stream.ps1
    Proxy streaming test:
    powershell -File tests/streaming_tests/proxy_stream.ps1
These tests verify that responses are streamed chunk-by-chunk
without buffering entire files in memory.

🔹 Automated Test Suite (Makefile)
    If make is available:
    make run
    In another terminal:
    make test
Individual tests can also be run, for example:
make test_https
make test_malformed
make test_proxy_stream

# Authentication

  The proxy enforces Basic Proxy Authentication.

  Header used: Proxy-Authorization

  Unauthorized requests receive:
  HTTP/1.1 407 Proxy Authentication Required
# HTTPS Support

  HTTPS traffic is handled using the CONNECT method

  TLS traffic is forwarded transparently

  No TLS inspection or decryption is performed

# Concurrency Model

  Single listener thread

  Bounded connection queue

  Fixed-size worker thread pool

  Each worker handles one client connection at a time

  This ensures predictable performance and controlled resource usage.

# Limitations

  No persistent connection (keep-alive) support

  No TLS interception

  Limited caching strategy

  Thread-based scalability constraints

  See docs/limitations_and_future_work.md for details.

# Documentation

  Detailed documentation is available in the docs/ directory, including:

  Architecture and internal working

  Concurrency model and rationale

  Data flow description

  Error handling strategy

  Limitations and future enhancements

# Educational Value

This project demonstrates:

  Socket programming

  Multithreaded server design

  HTTP and HTTPS protocol handling

  Streaming I/O

  Robust error handling

  Proxy server architecture

📌# Conclusion

  The Custom Network Proxy Server provides a clear, modular, and practical
implementation of a real-world proxy system.
It balances simplicity and functionality, making it well-suited for academic
evaluation and learning purposes.


Author: A JAYENDRA SHIVASAI
        IIT Roorkee

Commit message:

Revise README with startup instructions and features
Updated README to include new startup instructions and prerequisites.

README.md, after:

# Custom Network Proxy Server

A multi-threaded **HTTP and HTTPS proxy server** implemented in Python.  
This proxy supports **concurrent clients**, **authentication**, **domain filtering**,
**HTTPS tunneling (CONNECT method)**, **streaming-based forwarding**, and **optional caching**.

The project is designed for academic evaluation and demonstrates practical networking
and system design concepts used in real-world proxy servers.

---
##  How to Start the Proxy Server

The proxy server can be started using the provided **Makefile**, which simplifies execution and ensures consistency.

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or above installed
- `make` utility available (Git Bash / MSYS2 / WSL recommended on Windows)

### Steps to Run

1. Open a terminal in the project root directory.
2. Start the proxy server using the following command:
```
make run
```
On successful startup, the following message will appear:
INFO - Proxy server running on port 8888
The proxy will now listen for incoming client connections on the configured port.

 Keep this terminal open while running tests, as the proxy must remain active.
##  Features

- HTTP request forwarding
- HTTPS tunneling using CONNECT method
- Concurrent client handling using a thread pool
- Streaming response relay (no full buffering)
- Basic proxy authentication
- Domain blocking and filtering
- Optional caching for GET requests
- Thread-safe logging
- Graceful handling of malformed requests

---

##  Technology Stack

- **Language:** Python 3  
- **Networking:** TCP sockets  
- **Concurrency:** Thread pool + queue  
- **Protocols:** HTTP/1.1, HTTPS (CONNECT)  
- **Testing:** PowerShell scripts + curl  

---

##  Project Structure

CUSTOM-NETWORK-PROXY-SERVER/
│
├── config/
│ └── proxy_config.json
│
├── docs/
│ ├── architecture_and_working.md
│ ├── concurrency_model.md
│ ├── data_flow_description.md
│ ├── error_handling.md
│ └── limitations_and_future_work.md
│
├── Project Statement/
│
├── src/
│ ├── proxy_server.py
│ ├── connection_handler.py
│ ├── http_parser.py
│ ├── https_tunnel.py
│ ├── auth.py
│ ├── filter_engine.py
│ ├── cache_manager.py
│ └── logger.py
│
├── tests/
│ ├── streaming_tests/
│ │ ├── direct_stream.ps1
│ │ └── proxy_stream.ps1
│ │
│ ├── test_auth.ps1
│ ├── test_blocking.ps1
│ ├── test_cache.ps1
│ ├── test_concurrency.ps1
│ ├── test_forwarding.ps1
│ ├── test_https.ps1
│ ├── test_malformed.ps1
│ └── sample_logs.txt
│
├── Makefile
├── setup.py
├── requirements.txt
├── README.md
├── direct.zip
├── proxy.zip
├── large_test.bin
└── received.bin

---

##  Configuration

Edit the proxy configuration file:

config/proxy_config.json

Example:

```json
{
  "listen_port": 8888,
  "thread_pool_size": 10,
  "log_file": "proxy.log"
}
```

# Running the Proxy Server
1 Install Python (if not installed)

Python version 3.8 or above is recommended.

2 Start the proxy server:
python src/proxy_server.py

You should see a message similar to:
INFO - Proxy server running on port 8888

Testing the Proxy

  On Windows PowerShell, always use curl.exe instead of curl.
🔹 HTTP Forwarding Test
    curl.exe -x localhost:8888 --proxy-user admin:password123 http://httpbin.org/get
🔹 HTTPS CONNECT Test
    curl.exe -x localhost:8888 --proxy-user admin:password123 https://httpbin.org/get
Expected output includes:
HTTP/1.1 200 Connection Established

🔹 Streaming Test (Large File)
     Direct streaming test:
     powershell -File tests/streaming_tests/direct_stream.ps1
    Proxy streaming test:
    powershell -File tests/streaming_tests/proxy_stream.ps1
These tests verify that responses are streamed chunk-by-chunk
without buffering entire files in memory.

🔹 Automated Test Suite (Makefile)
    If make is available:
    make run
    In another terminal:
    make test
Individual tests can also be run, for example:
make test_https
make test_malformed
make test_proxy_stream

# Authentication

  The proxy enforces Basic Proxy Authentication.

  Header used: Proxy-Authorization

  Unauthorized requests receive:
  HTTP/1.1 407 Proxy Authentication Required
# HTTPS Support

  HTTPS traffic is handled using the CONNECT method

  TLS traffic is forwarded transparently

  No TLS inspection or decryption is performed

# Concurrency Model

  Single listener thread

  Bounded connection queue

  Fixed-size worker thread pool

  Each worker handles one client connection at a time

  This ensures predictable performance and controlled resource usage.

# Limitations

  No persistent connection (keep-alive) support

  No TLS interception

  Limited caching strategy

  Thread-based scalability constraints

  See docs/limitations_and_future_work.md for details.

# Documentation

  Detailed documentation is available in the docs/ directory, including:

  Architecture and internal working

  Concurrency model and rationale

  Data flow description

  Error handling strategy

  Limitations and future enhancements

# Educational Value

This project demonstrates:

  Socket programming

  Multithreaded server design

  HTTP and HTTPS protocol handling

  Streaming I/O

  Robust error handling

  Proxy server architecture

# Conclusion

  The Custom Network Proxy Server provides a clear, modular, and practical
implementation of a real-world proxy system.
It balances simplicity and functionality, making it well-suited for academic
evaluation and learning purposes.


Author: A JAYENDRA SHIVASAI,
         IIT Roorkee
